### inverted argument order, no semi-colons, `void` vs `Unit`, `Object` vs `Any?`, `fun`

The first thing we might notice when we look at Kotlin code is that:

- we must specify functions with `fun`

- we must specify argument list with the name of the argument first, colon, then the type

- we must specify the return type of the function at the end, also separated with a colon

- `void` functions don't need to have anything written there, and implicitly they return `Unit`

- we must specify `@Override` as `override` (mandatory language keyword)

- we must use `Any?` instead of `Object`

- there is no `new` keyword for instantiating classes

So for example, the following code:

``` java
package guide.to.kotlin;

public abstract class BaseClass {
    // ...
}

public class MyClass extends BaseClass {
    private final Map<String, Object> objects = new HashMap<>();

    public MyClass() {
        System.out.println("MyClass created");
    } 

    @Override
    protected void addToMap(String key, Object value) {
        objects.put(key, value);
    }

    public <T> T getObject(String key) {
        return (T) objects.get(key);
    }
}

final MyClass myClass = new MyClass();
```

would now in Kotlin look like this:

``` kotlin
package guide.to.kotlin

abstract class BaseClass {
    // ...
}

class MyClass: BaseClass() {
    private val objects = hashMapOf<String, Any?>()

    init {
        println("MyClass created")
    } 

    override fun addToMap(key: String, value: Any?) {
        objects.put(key, value);
    }

    fun <T> getObject(key: String): T = 
        objects.get(key) as T

    // note: we could have used `{ return ... }` here, 
    // but as it is single-line, this is preferred.
}

val myClass = MyClass()
```

### `interface`s with `val`, `var` and `fun`

What's important to know in Kotlin is that:

- `var` represents a regular mutable variable. Although `var` should only be used when we actually want to mutate the variable over time, and `val` should be used where able. 

- `val` represents a `final` variable in Java.

- Each `var` field exposes a `getter`/`setter`, and each `val` field exposes a `getter` to Java consumers. In fact, specifying `val blah: String get() = "Text"` is equivalent to `public String getBlah() { return "Text"; }`.

- `var`s can have different visibility modifiers, for example a public getter, but private setter.

With all that in consideration, an interface like this:

``` java
public interface MyContract {
    String getValue();

    void setValue(String value);

    String getName();

    void doSomething(String input1, String input2);
}
```

looks like this in Kotlin:

``` kotlin
interface MyContract {
    var value: String
    
    val name: String
 
    fun doSomething(input1: String, input2: String)
}
```

And implemented like this 

``` kotlin
class MyImpl(
    override var value: String,
    override val name: String
): MyContract {
    override fun doSomething(input1: String, input2: String) {
        ...
    }
}
```

### constructors, inheritance

Constructors are fairly special in Kotlin, in the sense that they also contain field declarations, and even passing arguments to super-constructors.

So the following Java code:

``` java
public class MyClass extends BaseClass implements MyInterface {
    private String mutableField = "";
    private final String name;

    public MyClass(String tag, String name) {
        super(tag);
        this.name = name;
    }

    public String getMutableField() {
        return mutableField;
    }

    public void setMutableField(String mutableField) {
        this.mutableField = mutableField;
    }

    @Override
    public void methodFromInterface() {
    }
}
```

is (almost) equivalent to the following in Kotlin:

``` kotlin
class MyClass(
    tag: String,
    private val name: String,
    var mutableField: String = "" // default argument
): BaseClass(tag), MyInterface {
    override fun methodFromInterface() {
    }
}
```

It is worth knowing that it is possible to define multiple constructors using the `constructor` keyword, which can call other constructors with `this()` or `super()`. It is also needed if annotations are added to it (for example, `class MyClass @Inject constructor() {}`.

``` kotlin
class MyCustomView : FrameLayout {
    constructor(context: Context) : super(context)
    constructor(context: Context, attrs: AttributeSet?) : super(context, attrs)
    constructor(context: Context, attrs: AttributeSet?, @AttrRes defStyleAttr: Int) : super(context, attrs, defStyleAttr)
```

### lateinit vars

If you know that a value in Kotlin *will be initialized later* so you can guarantee that it will be non-null on any future access, instead of defining it as `name: String?`, you can define it as a `lateinit var name: String`.

Please note that accessing an uninitialized lateinit variable results in an exception.

It's fairly common to use `lateinit var` inside Activity/Fragment calls (because you commonly initialize things in `onCreate`/`onViewCreated`), so it's best to know about this.

### enum class

Compared to just saying

``` java
enum Colors {
    RED,
    BLUE
}
```

Kotlin uses the term `enum class` instead.

``` kotlin
enum class Colors {
    RED,
    BLUE
}
```

Good news is that `enum class`es know all the goodies that Java enums do, like constructor arguments, or abstract methods.

### annotation class

In Java, you define an annotation with `public @interface MyAnnotation {}`. In Kotlin, you do this with `annotation class MyAnnotation`.

### `final` by default vs `open`

Any class we create is `final` by default - meaning that it cannot be extended. This is because inheritance is easy to get wrong, so as per "Effective Java", Kotlin tries to enforce this by ensuring that a class can be inherited from only if it is explicitly marked as `open`.

Therefore,

``` java
public final class FinalClass {
}
```

is

``` kotlin
class FinalClass {
}
```

While the following in Java

``` java
public class SomeClass {
}
```

is the following in Kotlin

``` kotlin
open class SomeClass {
}
```

Note that `abstract class`es in Kotlin are `open` by default.

### `for` loops (`in` ranges, `until`)

Regular for-loops in Java are actually trickier in Kotlin, as it introduces new keywords. However, we should also note that it's quite common to use `.foreach {` instead of `for(...) {` loops (or some other constructs from the Collections API like `map` or `filter` that can do the `for-if` for us instead), but it can be useful to know about `for` loop quirks nonetheless.

``` java
for(int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
    // do something
}
```

is now:

``` kotlin
for(i in 0 until n) {
    // do something
}
```

where `0 until n` is actually a range defined as `0..n-1`.

Regular loops with iterators look like this:

``` kotlin
for(pair in pairs) {
    ...
}
```

And pairs can actually be deconstructed (seen later), but this can be applied with maps, for example:

``` kotlin
for((key, value) in map.entries) {
    ...
}
```

### `object` for singleton

In Kotlin, it's possible to *very easily* (maybe a bit too easily) define a singleton. Meaning any top-level `object` exposes a `.INSTANCE` accessor to Java. It looks like this:

``` kotlin
object MySingleton {
    // this is a singleton

    fun something() {
    }
}
```

And accessed from places like this:

``` kotlin
MySingleton.something()
```

Fairly straightforward. Try not to over-use it if possible (as you should normally be wary of singletons).

But it's worth noting that you can use it in the following ways, too (thanks [jmfayard](https://github.com/jmfayard/)):

1.) Have an object where you define your constants:

``` kotlin
object Network {
    const val API_URL = "http://httpbin.org"
    const val TIMEOUT = 1000
}
```

2.) Use it as a namespace for certain functions

``` kotlin
// this is possibly a static factory method for Java users
object Positions {
    @JvmStatic
    fun create(x: Int, y: Int) : Int = Position(x, y)
    //....
}
```

### statics via `companion object`, `const val`

An important thing to note is that `static`s "don't exist" in Kotlin.

So while the following in Java is pretty legit:

``` java
public class MyClassWithStatics {
    public static final String SOME_CONSTANT = "Hello!";

    public static String someUglyMutableField = "don't do this like ever";

    public static void hello() {
        System.out.println(SOME_CONSTANT + " " + someUglyMutableField);
    }
}

public class MyOtherClass {
    void doSomething() {
        String constant = MyClassWithStatics.SOME_CONSTANT;
        String someUglyMutableField = MyClassWithStatics.someUglyMutableField;
        MyClassWithStatics.hello();
    }
}
```

Instead, Kotlin introduces the concept of `companion object`s that store static fields and methods. 

Now, this might seem crazy, but it has the super-nice benefits that lets you inherit "static functions" from interfaces into your companion object. This might sound crazy, but this makes sense for example when you need to use the `Parceler<T>` interface in combination with the `@Parcelize` annotation using `kotlin-android-extensions` (to simplify the creation of `CREATOR`s).

It's also important for allowing the creation of extension functions that are accessed as "static methods" of a given class.

So the above code in Kotlin would look like this:

``` kotlin
class MyClassWithStatics {
    companion object {
        const val SOME_CONSTANT = "Hello!"

        @JvmField var someUglyMutableField: String = "don't do this like ever"

        @JvmStatic fun hello() { println("$SOME_CONSTANT $someUglyMutableField") }
    }
}
```

``` java
// consuming Java code!
public class MyOtherClass {
    public void doSomething() {
        String constant = MyClassWithStatics.SOME_CONSTANT;
        String someUglyMutableField = MyClassWithStatics.someUglyMutableField;
        MyClassWithStatics.hello();
    }
}
```

Now you might ask, "wait what are those `@JvmField` and `@JvmStatic` annotations for".

If you don't specify those, your Java consumer side (if you have such) would look like this:

``` java
public class MyOtherClass {
    public void doSomething() {
        String constant = MyClassWithStatics.Companion.INSTANCE.SOME_CONSTANT;
        String someUglyMutableField = MyClassWithStatics.Companion.INSTANCE.someUglyMutableField;
        MyClassWithStatics.Companion.INSTANCE.hello();
    }
}
```

Which is honestly hideous, so if you use the auto-converter, beware that it puts this stuff in your code by default instead of the annotations above.

### visibility in Kotlin (public by default, `private`, `protected`, `internal`)

In Java, we have the following visibilities:

- private

- package (this is the default)

- protected

- public

In Kotlin however, we have the following visibilities:

- private

- protected

- public (this is the default)

- internal

What's important to note is that **`internal` is not the same as `package`, don't try to use `internal` as a replacement for `package`.** 

There is NO package visibility in Kotlin.

I say this because your auto-converter will add `internal` everywhere. Just make them public instead.

`internal` has two odd caveats:

1.) it has a very strange access from Java code unless you use `@JvmName`

2.) it doesn't really do anything if your code is not multi-module (because `internal` restricts visibility to only the current compilation module).

So use `internal` only where it makes sense.

### `static` nested class in Java vs `inner` class in Kotlin

In Kotlin, all nested classes are equivalent with `public static class` in Java.

So to make a nested class be an "inner" class, it must be specified as `inner class`.

``` kotlin
class MyAdapter: RecyclerView.Adapter<MyAdapter.ViewHolder>() {
    inner class ViewHolder(view: View): RecyclerView.ViewHolder(view) {
        ...
    }
}
```

### backticks for reserved keywords (`Mockito.when`, `$`) and import aliases

It can happen that you are using a library written in Java that uses a reserved keyword in Kotlin (such as `object` or `when` or anything that includes a `$` symbol).

In this case, Kotlin allows you to use this without problems, as long as it is wrapped in backticks (`).

For example,

``` kotlin
Mockito.`when`(text.hashCode())
```

However, we can help this scenario by using an import alias, and use a different name.

``` kotlin
import org.mockito.Mockito.`when` as whenever

whenever(text.hashCode())
```

### `is` instead of `instanceof`, `as` and `as?` for casting

We might be used to using `instanceof` and `(MyClass)` for casting, but Kotlin has a different syntax.

``` java
public class Cat {
    private final String name;

    public Cat(String name) {
        this.name = name;
    }

    public void meow() {
        System.out.println("The cat " + name + " meowed.");
    }
}

void doSomething(Object obj) {
    if(obj instanceof Cat) {
        ((Cat)obj).meow();
    }
}
```

would now look like this in Kotlin:

``` kotlin
class Cat(private val name: String) {
    fun meow() {
        println("The cat $name meowed.")
    }
}

fun doSomething(obj: Any?) {
    if(obj is Cat) {
        obj.meow() // note that as `obj` is a `val`, the cast is automatic here
    }
}
```

If we cannot leverage smart-casting, then we can use `as` (throws exception on failure) or `as?` (returns null).

``` kotlin
(obj as? Cat)?.meow()
```

Also worth noting here that smart-casting wouldn't work with mutable nullable field variables, and should be re-assigned to a `val` first, like `val name = name`. But there will be an example for this later.

### creating anonymous implementations for classes/interfaces

Anonymous interface implementations have a very quirky syntax in Kotlin. Namely you need to create an anonymous object. It's easier to show an example.

``` java
myView.setOnClickListener(new View.OnClickListener() {
    @Override
    public void onClick(View view) {
        // do something
    }
});
```

would now be

``` kotlin
myView.setOnClickListener(object: View.OnClickListener {
    override fun onClick(view: View) {
        // do something
    }
})
```

Of course, I can sense pitchforks on the horizon because you can use Java 8 syntax and lambdas. And if you use Kotlin against a Java interface (or a `fun interface` since Kotlin 1.4.20+), then SAM (single-abstract-method) conversion will let you use a lambda expression in Kotlin as well.

``` java
myView.setOnClickListener((view) -> {
    // do something
});
```

and

``` kotlin
myView.setOnClickListener { view ->
    // do something
}
```

Note that we can ditch the enclosing `()` around the last lambda argument of a function, this is called "trailing lambdas". 

**Important Kotlin 1.4 change:** Since Kotlin 1.4, you can also use trailing lambdas (and not just `object: MyInterface {`) with `interface`s, if you declare the interface as `fun interface`. This needs the interface to only have a single method.

### there is no `condition ? true : false` ternary operator

Indeed, in Kotlin there is no ternary operator! It's very frustrating when you first run into it. Then you forget that you ever wanted it.

There are two tricks to know about the ternary operator in Kotlin:

- you can use `val something = if(...) ... else ...`

- you generally shouldn't use `if-else` anyways in most cases and should generally prefer `= when`

``` kotlin
val something = when {
    value != "hello" -> "beep"
    else -> "boop"
}
```

The nice thing to note here is that *you can combine these keywords into assignments*.

To quote the original docs:

> In Kotlin, if is an expression, i.e. it returns a value. Therefore there is no ternary operator (condition ? then : else), because ordinary if works fine in this role.

### single-line functions can be used with `= ...` instead of `{ return ... }`

As shown above, you can turn methods like this:

``` kotlin
fun getRepository(): Repository {
    return repository
}
```

into

``` kotlin
fun getRepository(): Repository = repository
```

and in fact, in this particular case, we can ditch `fun get` and make it a `val get()`:

```
val repository: Repository get() = repository
```

If you're using Dagger and you have a bunch of `@Provides fun getSomething() { return something }` methods, these tricks should generally be applied to them.

### `arrayOf` and `arrayOfNulls` and `listOf` and `mutableListOf` and `linkedMapOf`

Kotlin provides functions that initialize collections as part of the standard library, and should typically be preferred compared to using their constructors directly.

For example,

``` java
private final List<String> strings = new ArrayList<>();
```

is generally replaced with

``` kotlin
private val strings = arrayListOf<String>()
```

You may note that "hold on, the class used to be seen as a `List`, but now it's an `ArrayList<String>`", and you'd be right. In Kotlin, the mutator methods are separated into a separate `MutableList` interface, so if we do want to mutate this list in place over time, we should use either `mutableListOf<T>()`, or `arrayListOf<T>()`.

Same goes for `mapOf<K, V>()`, `mutableMapOf<K, V>()`, and `linkedMapOf<K, V>()`.

And of course for `setOf<T>()`, `mutableSetOf<T>()`, `hashSetOf<T>()`, I'm sure you get the idea. 

Also, you create a list with a size of elements and a lambda for each element. (thanks @jmfayard) 

``` kotlin 
val squares = List(size = 6) { index -> index * index } 
// same as:
val squares = listOf(0, 1, 4, 9, 16, 25)
```

### array literal in annotations (even for single-argument vararg parameter)

In annotations (and in annotations only!), single-argument vararg parameters must be passed as an array.

Previously it used to be with `arrayOf(value1, value2)` (and single-arg was allowed without `arrayOf`), but people found this verbose compared to Java's `{ value1, value2 }`.

So Kotlin added support for "array literal in annotations" in 1.2, but now single-arg must also be passed in array.

``` kotlin
@Component(modules = [PresentationModule::class], dependencies = [SingletonComponent::class])
interface PresentationComponent {
}
```

### operator conventions (`get()` vs `[]`, `.equals()` vs `==`)

Many names that a given method had in Java are converted implicitly to "operator"s in Kotlin.

For example, `==` in Kotlin actually translates to `.equals()`, and `===` is referential equality.

Also a notable example is `String value = map.get("key")` can be written as `val value = map["key"]` instead.

`<`, `<=`, `>` and `>=` are mapped to `.compareTo` calls, and it is possible to override other operators such as `+=`, `-=`, `+a` and so on.

### there are no checked exceptions, .use()

Because in Java it was very common to do this:

``` java
try {
    ...
} catch(Exception e) {
    throw new RuntimeException(e);
}
```

Instead, in Kotlin, all exceptions are unchecked. But you can still catch and throw them as you normally would.

``` kotlin
try {
    ...
} catch(e: Exception) {
    ...
} finally {
    ...
}
```

What's important to note is that `try(Closeable closeable = new Closeable()) { ... }` from Java is actually implemented with a function called `use`.

``` kotlin
Closeable().use { closable ->
    ...
}
```

### volatile is replaced with @Volatile

It might be important to know that `volatile` is no longer a keyword, but you can use `@Volatile` to achieve the same behavior.

For synchronized, we can use the `synchronized(lock) { ... }` function from the Kotlin standard library.

### multiple generic bounds

In Java, we can write the following:

``` java
public class MyClass<T extends SomeClass & Comparable> {
    ...
}
```

If we need to specify multiple bounds in Kotlin, we need to use a very different syntax.

``` kotlin
class MyClass<T: SomeClass> { // this would be single-bounds

class MyClass<T>
    where T: SomeClass,
          T: Comparable { // multiple generic bounds
```